# Wordpress Table Shortcode Example

This is a study for inserting a data table into a Wordpress page or post body. The implementation requires three files: code, template, and data file.

The code file is the shortcode processor. It includes the template and data file, and generates the HTML table every time the shortcode is encountered on page load.

The template includes some simple CSS styling and renders the data into table rows.

The data file included here is a PHP data structure that simulates one that has been generated by some other program. The structure is an array of two groups of row arrays. The row arrays have fields that correlate to database table columns. The reason for grouping is to include an arbitrary filtering example.

In a real world implementation, the data file would be generated by a separate process, for example a remote API fetch running asynchronously. The data currently displayed in the table would be from the most recent fetch.

## Installation

It is simple to demonstrate this shortcode.

1. Click 'Clone or Download', the Download ZIP. Unzip the file in a temporary directory.

1. Copy the 3 files starting with `prh_` (shortcode, template, data files) into your theme root directory (where your functions.php and style.css is located).

1. Append the code to your functions.php by adding this line to the end of functions.php in your theme or child theme:
`require_once __DIR__ . '/prh_shortcodes.php';`

## Usage

1. Place a shortcode into a page or post, in the Text tab, not the Visual tab.

1. The data file has sample data in two groupings, Doctors and Teachers.

1. Shortcode syntax:
  `[prh_table group="{group name}" title="{table title}"]`

1. And a working example:
  `[prh_table group="doctors" title="Doctor Registry"]`

## Notes

The prefix `prh_` is used as a Wordpress namespace isolation hack. You can replace `prh_` with any substring you anticipate to be unique, or not.

In most cases, more CSS changes will be needed for beautification. Styling should be modified to be consistent with the user's theme. Also there may need to be accommodation for devices with narrow viewports relative to table width.

## More information

Wordpress [Shortcode API](https://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode_API)
